# ASVS 2 Checklist – General – Devtools

_Use during DESIGN and PRE-MERGE review. This list is tailored to your stack and responsibility._

- [ ] V1.5.2 – Verify that deserialization of untrusted data enforces safe input handling, such as using an allowlist of object types or restricting client-defined object types, to prevent deserialization attacks. Deserialization mechanisms that are explicitly defined as insecure must not be used with untrusted input.
- [ ] V2.1.2 – Verify that the application's documentation defines how to validate the logical and contextual consistency of combined data items, such as checking that suburb and ZIP code match.
- [ ] V2.3.2 – Verify that business logic limits are implemented per the application's documentation to avoid business logic flaws being exploited.
- [ ] V3.3.4 – Verify that if the value of a cookie is not meant to be accessible to client-side scripts (such as a session token), the cookie must have the 'HttpOnly' attribute set and the same value (e. g. session token) must only be transferred to the client via the 'Set-Cookie' header field.
- [ ] V4.1.2 – Verify that only user-facing endpoints (intended for manual web-browser access) automatically redirect from HTTP to HTTPS, while other services or endpoints do not implement transparent redirects. This is to avoid a situation where a client is erroneously sending unencrypted HTTP requests, but since the requests are being automatically redirected to HTTPS, the leakage of sensitive data goes undiscovered.
- [ ] V5.1.1 – Verify that the documentation defines the permitted file types, expected file extensions, and maximum size (including unpacked size) for each upload feature. Additionally, ensure that the documentation specifies how files are made safe for end-users to download and process, such as how the application behaves when a malicious file is detected.
- [ ] V7.1.1 – Verify that the user's session inactivity timeout and absolute maximum session lifetime are documented, are appropriate in combination with other controls, and that the documentation includes justification for any deviations from NIST SP 800-63B re-authentication requirements.
- [ ] V7.1.2 – Verify that the documentation defines how many concurrent (parallel) sessions are allowed for one account as well as the intended behaviors and actions to be taken when the maximum number of active sessions is reached.
- [ ] V8.1.2 – Verify that authorization documentation defines rules for field-level access restrictions (both read and write) based on consumer permissions and resource attributes. Note that these rules might depend on other attribute values of the relevant data object, such as state or status.
- [ ] V10.1.2 – Verify that the client only accepts values from the authorization server (such as the authorization code or ID Token) if these values result from an authorization flow that was initiated by the same user agent session and transaction. This requires that client-generated secrets, such as the proof key for code exchange (PKCE) 'code_verifier', 'state' or OIDC 'nonce', are not guessable, are specific to the transaction, and are securely bound to both the client and the user agent session in which the transaction was started.
- [ ] V10.2.1 – Verify that, if the code flow is used, the OAuth client has protection against browser-based request forgery attacks, commonly known as cross-site request forgery (CSRF), which trigger token requests, either by using proof key for code exchange (PKCE) functionality or checking the 'state' parameter that was sent in the authorization request.
- [ ] V10.2.2 – Verify that, if the OAuth client can interact with more than one authorization server, it has a defense against mix-up attacks. For example, it could require that the authorization server return the 'iss' parameter value and validate it in the authorization response and the token response.
- [ ] V10.4.7 – Verify that if the authorization server supports unauthenticated dynamic client registration, it mitigates the risk of malicious client applications. It must validate client metadata such as any registered URIs, ensure the user's consent, and warn the user before processing an authorization request with an untrusted client application.
- [ ] V10.4.9 – Verify that refresh tokens and reference access tokens can be revoked by an authorized user using the authorization server user interface, to mitigate the risk of malicious clients or stolen tokens.
- [ ] V10.4.10 – Verify that confidential client is authenticated for client-to-authorized server backchannel requests such as token requests, pushed authorization requests (PAR), and token revocation requests.
- [ ] V10.4.11 – Verify that the authorization server configuration only assigns the required scopes to the OAuth client.
- [ ] V10.5.1 – Verify that the client (as the relying party) mitigates ID Token replay attacks. For example, by ensuring that the 'nonce' claim in the ID Token matches the 'nonce' value sent in the authentication request to the OpenID Provider (in OAuth2 refereed to as the authorization request sent to the authorization server).
- [ ] V10.5.2 – Verify that the client uniquely identifies the user from ID Token claims, usually the 'sub' claim, which cannot be reassigned to other users (for the scope of an identity provider).
- [ ] V10.5.3 – Verify that the client rejects attempts by a malicious authorization server to impersonate another authorization server through authorization server metadata. The client must reject authorization server metadata if the issuer URL in the authorization server metadata does not exactly match the pre-configured issuer URL expected by the client.
- [ ] V10.5.4 – Verify that the client validates that the ID Token is intended to be used for that client (audience) by checking that the 'aud' claim from the token is equal to the 'client_id' value for the client.
- [ ] V10.5.5 – Verify that, when using OIDC back-channel logout, the relying party mitigates denial of service through forced logout and cross-JWT confusion in the logout flow. The client must verify that the logout token is correctly typed with a value of 'logout+jwt', contains the 'event' claim with the correct member name, and does not contain a 'nonce' claim. Note that it is also recommended to have a short expiration (e.g., 2 minutes).
- [ ] V10.7.1 – Verify that the authorization server ensures that the user consents to each authorization request. If the identity of the client cannot be assured, the authorization server must always explicitly prompt the user for consent.
- [ ] V12.1.3 – Verify that the application validates that mTLS client certificates are trusted before using the certificate identity for authentication or authorization.
- [ ] V12.3.2 – Verify that TLS clients validate certificates received before communicating with a TLS server.
- [ ] V13.4.3 – Verify that web servers do not expose directory listings to clients unless explicitly intended.
- [ ] V13.4.5 – Verify that documentation (such as for internal APIs) and monitoring endpoints are not exposed unless explicitly intended.
- [ ] V14.2.4 – Verify that controls around sensitive data related to encryption, integrity verification, retention, how the data is to be logged, access controls around sensitive data in logs, privacy and privacy-enhancing technologies, are implemented as defined in the documentation for the specific data's protection level.
- [ ] V15.1.3 – Verify that the application documentation identifies functionality which is time-consuming or resource-demanding. This must include how to prevent a loss of availability due to overusing this functionality and how to avoid a situation where building a response takes longer than the consumer's timeout. Potential defenses may include asynchronous processing, using queues, and limiting parallel processes per user and per application.
- [ ] V16.3.3 – Verify that the application logs the security events that are defined in the documentation and also logs attempts to bypass the security controls, such as input validation, business logic, and anti-automation.
