# ASVS 2 Checklist – General – Frontend

_Use during DESIGN and PRE-MERGE review. This list is tailored to your stack and responsibility._

- [ ] V1.3.5 – Verify that the application sanitizes or disables user-supplied scriptable or expression template language content, such as Markdown, CSS or XSL stylesheets, BBCode, or similar.
- [ ] V1.3.6 – Verify that the application protects against Server-side Request Forgery (SSRF) attacks, by validating untrusted data against an allowlist of protocols, domains, paths and ports and sanitizing potentially dangerous characters before using the data to call another service.
- [ ] V1.3.7 – Verify that the application protects against template injection attacks by not allowing templates to be built based on untrusted input. Where there is no alternative, any untrusted input being included dynamically during template creation must be sanitized or strictly validated.
- [ ] V3.3.2 – Verify that each cookie's 'SameSite' attribute value is set according to the purpose of the cookie, to limit exposure to user interface redress attacks and browser-based request forgery attacks, commonly known as cross-site request forgery (CSRF).
- [ ] V3.4.4 – Verify that all HTTP responses contain an 'X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff' header field. This instructs browsers not to use content sniffing and MIME type guessing for the given response, and to require the response's Content-Type header field value to match the destination resource. For example, the response to a request for a style is only accepted if the response's Content-Type is 'text/css'. This also enables the use of the Cross-Origin Read Blocking (CORB) functionality by the browser.
- [ ] V3.4.5 – Verify that the application sets a referrer policy to prevent leakage of technically sensitive data to third-party services via the 'Referer' HTTP request header field. This can be done using the Referrer-Policy HTTP response header field or via HTML element attributes. Sensitive data could include path and query data in the URL, and for internal non-public applications also the hostname.
- [ ] V3.4.6 – Verify that the web application uses the frame-ancestors directive of the Content-Security-Policy header field for every HTTP response to ensure that it cannot be embedded by default and that embedding of specific resources is allowed only when necessary. Note that the X-Frame-Options header field, although supported by browsers, is obsolete and may not be relied upon.
- [ ] V3.7.2 – Verify that the application will only automatically redirect the user to a different hostname or domain (which is not controlled by the application) where the destination appears on an allowlist.
- [ ] V4.1.2 – Verify that only user-facing endpoints (intended for manual web-browser access) automatically redirect from HTTP to HTTPS, while other services or endpoints do not implement transparent redirects. This is to avoid a situation where a client is erroneously sending unencrypted HTTP requests, but since the requests are being automatically redirected to HTTPS, the leakage of sensitive data goes undiscovered.
- [ ] V4.4.3 – Verify that, if the application's standard session management cannot be used, dedicated tokens are being used for this, which comply with the relevant Session Management security requirements.
- [ ] V6.2.10 – Verify that a user's password stays valid until it is discovered to be compromised or the user rotates it. The application must not require periodic credential rotation.
- [ ] V6.3.3 – Verify that either a multi-factor authentication mechanism or a combination of single-factor authentication mechanisms, must be used in order to access the application. For L3, one of the factors must be a hardware-based authentication mechanism which provides compromise and impersonation resistance against phishing attacks while verifying the intent to authenticate by requiring a user-initiated action (such as a button press on a FIDO hardware key or a mobile phone). Relaxing any of the considerations in this requirement requires a fully documented rationale and a comprehensive set of mitigating controls.
- [ ] V6.5.2 – Verify that, when being stored in the application's backend, lookup secrets with less than 112 bits of entropy (19 random alphanumeric characters or 34 random digits) are hashed with an approved password storage hashing algorithm that incorporates a 32-bit random salt. A standard hash function can be used if the secret has 112 bits of entropy or more.
- [ ] V6.5.3 – Verify that lookup secrets, out-of-band authentication code, and time-based one-time password seeds, are generated using a Cryptographically Secure Pseudorandom Number Generator (CSPRNG) to avoid predictable values.
- [ ] V6.5.4 – Verify that lookup secrets and out-of-band authentication codes have a minimum of 20 bits of entropy (typically 4 random alphanumeric characters or 6 random digits is sufficient).
- [ ] V7.1.1 – Verify that the user's session inactivity timeout and absolute maximum session lifetime are documented, are appropriate in combination with other controls, and that the documentation includes justification for any deviations from NIST SP 800-63B re-authentication requirements.
- [ ] V7.1.3 – Verify that all systems that create and manage user sessions as part of a federated identity management ecosystem (such as SSO systems) are documented along with controls to coordinate session lifetimes, termination, and any other conditions that require re-authentication.
- [ ] V7.4.4 – Verify that all pages that require authentication have easy and visible access to logout functionality.
- [ ] V7.5.1 – Verify that the application requires full re-authentication before allowing modifications to sensitive account attributes which may affect authentication such as email address, phone number, MFA configuration, or other information used in account recovery.
- [ ] V7.6.1 – Verify that session lifetime and termination between Relying Parties (RPs) and Identity Providers (IdPs) behave as documented, requiring re-authentication as necessary such as when the maximum time between IdP authentication events is reached.
- [ ] V7.6.2 – Verify that creation of a session requires either the user's consent or an explicit action, preventing the creation of new application sessions without user interaction.
- [ ] V9.2.4 – Verify that, if a token issuer uses the same private key for issuing tokens to different audiences, the issued tokens contain an audience restriction that uniquely identifies the intended audiences. This will prevent a token from being reused with an unintended audience. If the audience identifier is dynamically provisioned, the token issuer must validate these audiences in order to make sure that they do not result in audience impersonation.
- [ ] V10.1.2 – Verify that the client only accepts values from the authorization server (such as the authorization code or ID Token) if these values result from an authorization flow that was initiated by the same user agent session and transaction. This requires that client-generated secrets, such as the proof key for code exchange (PKCE) 'code_verifier', 'state' or OIDC 'nonce', are not guessable, are specific to the transaction, and are securely bound to both the client and the user agent session in which the transaction was started.
- [ ] V10.2.1 – Verify that, if the code flow is used, the OAuth client has protection against browser-based request forgery attacks, commonly known as cross-site request forgery (CSRF), which trigger token requests, either by using proof key for code exchange (PKCE) functionality or checking the 'state' parameter that was sent in the authorization request.
- [ ] V10.2.2 – Verify that, if the OAuth client can interact with more than one authorization server, it has a defense against mix-up attacks. For example, it could require that the authorization server return the 'iss' parameter value and validate it in the authorization response and the token response.
- [ ] V10.3.3 – Verify that if an access control decision requires identifying a unique user from an access token (JWT or related token introspection response), the resource server identifies the user from claims that cannot be reassigned to other users. Typically, it means using a combination of 'iss' and 'sub' claims.
- [ ] V10.3.4 – Verify that, if the resource server requires specific authentication strength, methods, or recentness, it verifies that the presented access token satisfies these constraints. For example, if present, using the OIDC 'acr', 'amr' and 'auth_time' claims respectively.
- [ ] V10.4.6 – Verify that, if the code grant is used, the authorization server mitigates authorization code interception attacks by requiring proof key for code exchange (PKCE). For authorization requests, the authorization server must require a valid 'code_challenge' value and must not accept a 'code_challenge_method' value of 'plain'. For a token request, it must require validation of the 'code_verifier' parameter.
- [ ] V10.4.11 – Verify that the authorization server configuration only assigns the required scopes to the OAuth client.
- [ ] V11.2.2 – Verify that the application is designed with crypto agility such that random number, authenticated encryption, MAC, or hashing algorithms, key lengths, rounds, ciphers and modes can be reconfigured, upgraded, or swapped at any time, to protect against cryptographic breaks. Similarly, it must also be possible to replace keys and passwords and re-encrypt data. This will allow for seamless upgrades to post-quantum cryptography (PQC), once high-assurance implementations of approved PQC schemes or standards are widely available.
- [ ] V11.2.3 – Verify that all cryptographic primitives utilize a minimum of 128-bits of security based on the algorithm, key size, and configuration. For example, a 256-bit ECC key provides roughly 128 bits of security where RSA requires a 3072-bit key to achieve 128 bits of security.
- [ ] V11.4.2 – Verify that passwords are stored using an approved, computationally intensive, key derivation function (also known as a "password hashing function"), with parameter settings configured based on current guidance. The settings should balance security and performance to make brute-force attacks sufficiently challenging for the required level of security.
- [ ] V11.4.3 – Verify that hash functions used in digital signatures, as part of data authentication or data integrity are collision resistant and have appropriate bit-lengths. If collision resistance is required, the output length must be at least 256 bits. If only resistance to second pre-image attacks is required, the output length must be at least 128 bits.
- [ ] V11.5.1 – Verify that all random numbers and strings which are intended to be non-guessable must be generated using a cryptographically secure pseudo-random number generator (CSPRNG) and have at least 128 bits of entropy. Note that UUIDs do not respect this condition.
- [ ] V12.1.2 – Verify that only recommended cipher suites are enabled, with the strongest cipher suites set as preferred. L3 applications must only support cipher suites which provide forward secrecy.
- [ ] V13.3.1 – Verify that a secrets management solution, such as a key vault, is used to securely create, store, control access to, and destroy backend secrets. These could include passwords, key material, integrations with databases and third-party systems, keys and seeds for time-based tokens, other internal secrets, and API keys. Secrets must not be included in application source code or included in build artifacts. For an L3 application, this must involve a hardware-backed solution such as an HSM.
- [ ] V14.1.1 – Verify that all sensitive data created and processed by the application has been identified and classified into protection levels. This includes data that is only encoded and therefore easily decoded, such as Base64 strings or the plaintext payload inside a JWT. Protection levels need to take into account any data protection and privacy regulations and standards which the application is required to comply with.
- [ ] V14.1.2 – Verify that all sensitive data protection levels have a documented set of protection requirements. This must include (but not be limited to) requirements related to general encryption, integrity verification, retention, how the data is to be logged, access controls around sensitive data in logs, database-level encryption, privacy and privacy-enhancing technologies to be used, and other confidentiality requirements.
- [ ] V14.3.2 – Verify that the application sets sufficient anti-caching HTTP response header fields (i.e., Cache-Control: no-store) so that sensitive data is not cached in browsers.
- [ ] V14.3.3 – Verify that data stored in browser storage (such as localStorage, sessionStorage, IndexedDB, or cookies) does not contain sensitive data, with the exception of session tokens.
- [ ] V15.1.3 – Verify that the application documentation identifies functionality which is time-consuming or resource-demanding. This must include how to prevent a loss of availability due to overusing this functionality and how to avoid a situation where building a response takes longer than the consumer's timeout. Potential defenses may include asynchronous processing, using queues, and limiting parallel processes per user and per application.
- [ ] V15.2.3 – Verify that the production environment only includes functionality that is required for the application to function, and does not expose extraneous functionality such as test code, sample snippets, and development functionality.
- [ ] V16.5.2 – Verify that the application continues to operate securely when external resource access fails, for example, by using patterns such as circuit breakers or graceful degradation.
- [ ] V17.2.2 – Verify that the media server is configured to use and support approved Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) cipher suites and a secure protection profile for the DTLS Extension for establishing keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (DTLS-SRTP).
