# ASVS 1 Checklist – General – Frontend

_Use during DESIGN and PRE-MERGE review. This list is tailored to your stack and responsibility._

- [ ] V1.2.1 – Verify that output encoding for an HTTP response, HTML document, or XML document is relevant for the context required, such as encoding the relevant characters for HTML elements, HTML attributes, HTML comments, CSS, or HTTP header fields, to avoid changing the message or document structure.
- [ ] V1.3.1 – Verify that all untrusted HTML input from WYSIWYG editors or similar is sanitized using a well-known and secure HTML sanitization library or framework feature.
- [ ] V3.2.1 – Verify that security controls are in place to prevent browsers from rendering content or functionality in HTTP responses in an incorrect context (e.g., when an API, a user-uploaded file or other resource is requested directly). Possible controls could include: not serving the content unless HTTP request header fields (such as Sec-Fetch-\*) indicate it is the correct context, using the sandbox directive of the Content-Security-Policy header field or using the attachment disposition type in the Content-Disposition header field.
- [ ] V3.4.1 – Verify that a Strict-Transport-Security header field is included on all responses to enforce an HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) policy. A maximum age of at least 1 year must be defined, and for L2 and up, the policy must apply to all subdomains as well.
- [ ] V3.5.1 – Verify that, if the application does not rely on the CORS preflight mechanism to prevent disallowed cross-origin requests to use sensitive functionality, these requests are validated to ensure they originate from the application itself. This may be done by using and validating anti-forgery tokens or requiring extra HTTP header fields that are not CORS-safelisted request-header fields. This is to defend against browser-based request forgery attacks, commonly known as cross-site request forgery (CSRF).
- [ ] V3.5.2 – Verify that, if the application relies on the CORS preflight mechanism to prevent disallowed cross-origin use of sensitive functionality, it is not possible to call the functionality with a request which does not trigger a CORS-preflight request. This may require checking the values of the 'Origin' and 'Content-Type' request header fields or using an extra header field that is not a CORS-safelisted header-field.
- [ ] V6.2.3 – Verify that password change functionality requires the user's current and new password.
- [ ] V6.2.5 – Verify that passwords of any composition can be used, without rules limiting the type of characters permitted. There must be no requirement for a minimum number of upper or lower case characters, numbers, or special characters.
- [ ] V6.2.7 – Verify that "paste" functionality, browser password helpers, and external password managers are permitted.
- [ ] V6.4.1 – Verify that system generated initial passwords or activation codes are securely randomly generated, follow the existing password policy, and expire after a short period of time or after they are initially used. These initial secrets must not be permitted to become the long term password.
- [ ] V7.2.3 – Verify that if reference tokens are used to represent user sessions, they are unique and generated using a cryptographically secure pseudo-random number generator (CSPRNG) and possess at least 128 bits of entropy.
- [ ] V11.4.1 – Verify that only approved hash functions are used for general cryptographic use cases, including digital signatures, HMAC, KDF, and random bit generation. Disallowed hash functions, such as MD5, must not be used for any cryptographic purpose.
- [ ] V14.3.1 – Verify that authenticated data is cleared from client storage, such as the browser DOM, after the client or session is terminated. The 'Clear-Site-Data' HTTP response header field may be able to help with this but the client-side should also be able to clear up if the server connection is not available when the session is terminated.
- [ ] V15.3.1 – Verify that the application only returns the required subset of fields from a data object. For example, it should not return an entire data object, as some individual fields should not be accessible to users.
