# ASVS LEVEL3 Checklist – General – Backend

_Use during DESIGN and PRE-MERGE review._

- [ ] V10.2.3 – Verify that the OAuth client only requests the required scopes (or other authorization parameters) in requests to the authorization server.
- [ ] V10.3.5 – Verify that the resource server prevents the use of stolen access tokens or replay of access tokens (from unauthorized parties) by requiring sender-constrained access tokens, either Mutual TLS for OAuth 2 or OAuth 2 Demonstration of Proof of Possession (DPoP).
- [ ] V10.4.12 – Verify that for a given client, the authorization server only allows the 'response_mode' value that this client needs to use. For example, by having the authorization server validate this value against the expected values or by using pushed authorization request (PAR) or JWT-secured Authorization Request (JAR).
- [ ] V10.4.13 – Verify that grant type 'code' is always used together with pushed authorization requests (PAR).
- [ ] V10.4.14 – Verify that the authorization server issues only sender-constrained (Proof-of-Possession) access tokens, either with certificate-bound access tokens using mutual TLS (mTLS) or DPoP-bound access tokens (Demonstration of Proof of Possession).
- [ ] V10.4.15 – Verify that, for a server-side client (which is not executed on the end-user device), the authorization server ensures that the 'authorization_details' parameter value is from the client backend and that the user has not tampered with it. For example, by requiring the usage of pushed authorization request (PAR) or JWT-secured Authorization Request (JAR).
- [ ] V10.4.16 – Verify that the client is confidential and the authorization server requires the use of strong client authentication methods (based on public-key cryptography and resistant to replay attacks), such as mutual TLS ('tls_client_auth', 'self_signed_tls_client_auth') or private key JWT ('private_key_jwt').
- [ ] V11.1.3 – Verify that cryptographic discovery mechanisms are employed to identify all instances of cryptography in the system, including encryption, hashing, and signing operations.
- [ ] V11.2.4 – Verify that all cryptographic operations are constant-time, with no 'short-circuit' operations in comparisons, calculations, or returns, to avoid leaking information.
- [ ] V11.2.5 – Verify that all cryptographic modules fail securely, and errors are handled in a way that does not enable vulnerabilities, such as Padding Oracle attacks.
- [ ] V11.6.2 – Verify that approved cryptographic algorithms are used for key exchange (such as Diffie-Hellman) with a focus on ensuring that key exchange mechanisms use secure parameters. This will prevent attacks on the key establishment process which could lead to adversary-in-the-middle attacks or cryptographic breaks.
- [ ] V12.3.5 – Verify that services communicating internally within a system (intra-service communications) use strong authentication to ensure that each endpoint is verified. Strong authentication methods, such as TLS client authentication, must be employed to ensure identity, using public-key infrastructure and mechanisms that are resistant to replay attacks. For microservice architectures, consider using a service mesh to simplify certificate management and enhance security.
- [ ] V13.1.3 – Verify that the application documentation defines resource‑management strategies for every external system or service it uses (e.g., databases, file handles, threads, HTTP connections). This should include resource‑release procedures, timeout settings, failure handling, and where retry logic is implemented, specifying retry limits, delays, and back‑off algorithms. For synchronous HTTP request–response operations it should mandate short timeouts and either disable retries or strictly limit retries to prevent cascading delays and resource exhaustion.
- [ ] V13.3.3 – Verify that all cryptographic operations are performed using an isolated security module (such as a vault or hardware security module) to securely manage and protect key material from exposure outside of the security module.
- [ ] V17.2.8 – Verify that the Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) certificate is checked against the Session Description Protocol (SDP) fingerprint attribute, terminating the media stream if the check fails, to ensure the authenticity of the media stream.
- [ ] V2.3.5 – Verify that high-value business logic flows require multi-user approval to prevent unauthorized or accidental actions. This could include but is not limited to large monetary transfers, contract approvals, access to classified information, or safety overrides in manufacturing.
- [ ] V2.4.2 – Verify that business logic flows require realistic human timing, preventing excessively rapid transaction submissions.
- [ ] V4.2.5 – Verify that, if the application (backend or frontend) builds and sends requests, it uses validation, sanitization, or other mechanisms to avoid creating URIs (such as for API calls) or HTTP request header fields (such as Authorization or Cookie), which are too long to be accepted by the receiving component. This could cause a denial of service, such as when sending an overly long request (e.g., a long cookie header field), which results in the server always responding with an error status.
- [ ] V6.3.5 – Verify that users are notified of suspicious authentication attempts (successful or unsuccessful). This may include authentication attempts from an unusual location or client, partially successful authentication (only one of multiple factors), an authentication attempt after a long period of inactivity or a successful authentication after several unsuccessful attempts.
- [ ] V6.3.6 – Verify that email is not used as either a single-factor or multi-factor authentication mechanism.
- [ ] V6.3.7 – Verify that users are notified after updates to authentication details, such as credential resets or modification of the username or email address.
- [ ] V6.3.8 – Verify that valid users cannot be deduced from failed authentication challenges, such as by basing on error messages, HTTP response codes, or different response times. Registration and forgot password functionality must also have this protection.
- [ ] V6.4.5 – Verify that renewal instructions for authentication mechanisms which expire are sent with enough time to be carried out before the old authentication mechanism expires, configuring automated reminders if necessary.
- [ ] V6.5.6 – Verify that any authentication factor (including physical devices) can be revoked in case of theft or other loss.
- [ ] V6.5.7 – Verify that biometric authentication mechanisms are only used as secondary factors together with either something you have or something you know.
- [ ] V6.6.4 – Verify that, where push notifications are used for multi-factor authentication, rate limiting is used to prevent push bombing attacks. Number matching may also mitigate this risk.
- [ ] V6.7.1 – Verify that the certificates used to verify cryptographic authentication assertions are stored in a way protects them from modification.
- [ ] V6.7.2 – Verify that the challenge nonce is at least 64 bits in length, and statistically unique or unique over the lifetime of the cryptographic device.
- [ ] V7.5.3 – Verify that the application requires further authentication with at least one factor or secondary verification before performing highly sensitive transactions or operations.
- [ ] V8.1.3 – Verify that the application's documentation defines the environmental and contextual attributes (including but not limited to, time of day, user location, IP address, or device) that are used in the application to make security decisions, including those pertaining to authentication and authorization.
- [ ] V8.1.4 – Verify that authentication and authorization documentation defines how environmental and contextual factors are used in decision-making, in addition to function-level, data-specific, and field-level authorization. This should include the attributes evaluated, thresholds for risk, and actions taken (e.g., allow, challenge, deny, step-up authentication).
- [ ] V8.2.4 – Verify that adaptive security controls based on a consumer's environmental and contextual attributes (such as time of day, location, IP address, or device) are implemented for authentication and authorization decisions, as defined in the application's documentation. These controls must be applied when the consumer tries to start a new session and also during an existing session.
- [ ] V8.3.2 – Verify that changes to values on which authorization decisions are made are applied immediately. Where changes cannot be applied immediately, (such as when relying on data in self-contained tokens), there must be mitigating controls to alert when a consumer performs an action when they are no longer authorized to do so and revert the change. Note that this alternative would not mitigate information leakage.
- [ ] V8.3.3 – Verify that access to an object is based on the originating subject's (e.g. consumer's) permissions, not on the permissions of any intermediary or service acting on their behalf. For example, if a consumer calls a web service using a self-contained token for authentication, and the service then requests data from a different service, the second service will use the consumer's token, rather than a machine-to-machine token from the first service, to make permission decisions.
- [ ] V8.4.2 – Verify that access to administrative interfaces incorporates multiple layers of security, including continuous consumer identity verification, device security posture assessment, and contextual risk analysis, ensuring that network location or trusted endpoints are not the sole factors for authorization even though they may reduce the likelihood of unauthorized access.
