# ASVS LEVEL3 Checklist – General – Integration

_Use during DESIGN and PRE-MERGE review._

- [ ] V10.2.3 – Verify that the OAuth client only requests the required scopes (or other authorization parameters) in requests to the authorization server.
- [ ] V10.3.5 – Verify that the resource server prevents the use of stolen access tokens or replay of access tokens (from unauthorized parties) by requiring sender-constrained access tokens, either Mutual TLS for OAuth 2 or OAuth 2 Demonstration of Proof of Possession (DPoP).
- [ ] V12.3.5 – Verify that services communicating internally within a system (intra-service communications) use strong authentication to ensure that each endpoint is verified. Strong authentication methods, such as TLS client authentication, must be employed to ensure identity, using public-key infrastructure and mechanisms that are resistant to replay attacks. For microservice architectures, consider using a service mesh to simplify certificate management and enhance security.
- [ ] V15.1.4 – Verify that application documentation highlights third-party libraries which are considered to be "risky components".
- [ ] V15.2.4 – Verify that third-party components and all of their transitive dependencies are included from the expected repository, whether internally owned or an external source, and that there is no risk of a dependency confusion attack.
- [ ] V15.2.5 – Verify that the application implements additional protections around parts of the application which are documented as containing "dangerous functionality" or using third-party libraries considered to be "risky components". This could include techniques such as sandboxing, encapsulation, containerization or network level isolation to delay and deter attackers who compromise one part of an application from pivoting elsewhere in the application.
- [ ] V17.2.7 – Verify that any audio or video recording mechanisms associated with the media server are able to continue processing incoming media traffic during a flood of Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) packets from legitimate users.
- [ ] V8.4.2 – Verify that access to administrative interfaces incorporates multiple layers of security, including continuous consumer identity verification, device security posture assessment, and contextual risk analysis, ensuring that network location or trusted endpoints are not the sole factors for authorization even though they may reduce the likelihood of unauthorized access.
